Aim: Understanding TOSSIM for 
- Mote-mote radio communication 
- Mote-PC serial communication 

Introduction:
TOSSIM is a discrete event simulator for TinyOS sensor networks. Instead of compiling a TinyOS 
application for a mote, users can compile it into the TOSSIM framework, which runs on a PC. This 
allows users to debug, test, and analyze algorithms in a controlled and repeatable environment. As 
TOSSIM runs on a PC, users can examine their TinyOS code using debuggers and other development 
tools. This document briefly describes the design philosophy of TOSSIM, its capabilities, its structure. 
It also provides a brief tutorial on how to use TOSSIM for testing or analysis.

Basic Communication Interfaces

-Packets Provides the basic accessors for the message_t abstract data type. This interface provides 
commands for clearing a message's contents, getting its payload length, and getting a pointer to its 
payload area

Send - Provides the basic address-free message sending interface. This interface provides 
commands for sending a message and canceling a pending message send. The interface provides 
an event to indicate whether a message was sent successfully or not. It also provides convenience 
functions for getting the message's maximum payload as well as a pointer to a message's payload 
area.

Receive - Provides the basic message reception interface. This interface provides an event for 
receiving messages. It also provides, for convenience, commands for getting a message's payload 
length and getting a pointer to a message's payload area.

PacketAcknowledgements - Provides a mechanism for requesting acknowledgements on a per-packet basis.

Components

A number of components implement the basic communications and active message interfaces. Let's 
take a look at some of the components in the /tos/system directory. You should be familiar with these 
components because your code needs to specify both the interfaces your application uses as well as 
the components which provide (implement) those interfaces:

- AMReceiverC - Provides the following interfaces: Receive, Packet, and AMPacket.
- AMSenderC - Provides AMSend, Packet, AMPacket, and PacketAcknowledgements as Acks.
- AMSnooperC - Provides Receive, Packet, and AMPacket.
- AMSnoopingReceiverC - Provides Receive, Packet, and AMPacket.
- ActiveMessageAddressC - Provides commands to get and set the node's active message address. 
This interface is not for general use and changing a node's active message address can break the 
network stack, so avoid using it unless you know what you are doing.